Project Overview:

- This project centers around the creation of an interactive visualization model of wildifires caused by lightning strikes. The visualization is a heatmap generated by javscript using the mapping-platform 'Mapbox'. Within our heatmap, there are 3 accesible layers based on 5 year ranges; 2000-2005, 2005-2010, 2010-2015. Our data was sourced from kaggle.com orignally as a csv file. The csv was then shaped into geoJSON fromat using pandas. We built a flask application to serve the geoJSON from mongoDB to a javascript file.
  -The purpuse of the visualiztions is to illluminate any patterns/trends in lightning inudced wildfires. The 3 year blocks were implememted to gain another layer of understanding based on historical data dating back to the year 2000.

User Instructions:

- The flask 'app.py' will need to be executed within a python dev environmnet to access the data/visualiztions. When the api is opened in the default browser, the user need only click the link beneath the map visualizion note to access our Mapbox heatmap. The top left corner of the map has a layer control for the 3 5-year time periods along with an interacive scale that allows the user to view more or less wildifre data points.

Ethical Consideration:

- Our data was sourced and manipulated with intent purely dervied from scientific curiosity. The visualiztions were created to gain a higher level of comprehension behind lightning wildfire causality. Users are authorized to use our with same intent used to create it. Authorized users are permitted to apply our visualiztions to develop better methods of response, containment and prevention of such disastorous events. Users who intend to use this dataset/visualiztion to extort the population and natural resources within 'hot zones' are not authorized to use our dataset.

Data References:

- Original CSV, https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/aestheteaman01/278k-us-wildfires-due-to-lightning-2004-2015
